>> Jon: So
let's talk about screen readers and
let's talk about the accessibility stuff
that's important with screen readers.
I think probably if you ask people
what they know like technically on
accessibility, the number one thing is
Alt Text for images that gets said.
Despite that, it's still one of like,
it's just something that I see everywhere.
That images don't have alt text,
so for those that don't know,
it's a property of the image element and
you can specify any string.
Inside this alt attribute and so
just to give a little kind of demo.
So, if this is your website and you just
have an image with an image source in it.
And you go, and you're tabbing through
the website or you focus on the image or
you're just using a screen reader
to read the whole website.
Essentially one of two
things is gonna happen,
most of the time it's
gonna tell you an image.
And seeing that there's no alt text,
it's gonna read the file name to you.
So it'll be like image gwash.jpg or
something like that.
And so what your users here is
gwash.jpg image, and the cool thing
with the screen readers is that they
do read to you, which is really nice.
But for this like where we're all together
if you don't have headphones they also
print at the bottom of the screen
everything that they're reading.
So you can just use them visually.
So then if we go ahead and we add
something like George Washington Portrait
and then you go back and
you refresh the page.
Now you get this really great amount of
context, George Washington Portrait and
image.
And so these are just some examples.
I was doing a conference talking
accessibility a while ago.
So these three sites that are very
popular don't have alt text.
This is not actually up to date cuz
Twitter just added alt text as an option.
They don't have all text,
which makes sense because
they're user generated content.
But they also, for the sake of collisions,
they really hash their, like,
they make unique file names.
So just imagine being a user on a screen
reader, and getting one of these,
you know, like 172428, and Facebook,
they're not even really images.
They're like p to p files, that either
they do some stuff, you know, and
Twitters are hashed.
So again, like keeping in mind freeze,
some stuff are really challenging because
if you have users
uploading their own images.
The best you can do is
you can kind of suggest,
give them option to add alt
text which Twitter now does.
It's behind an option settings but,
every time you upload an image,
you can give an alternate text as well but
just keep it in mind what that
experience might be like.
So the four rules of
writing good alt text.
Be accurate, be succinct, don't be
redundant, and don't use image of or
graphic of because that's
going to be taken care of.
That's like one of the big boo boos that
I see is like image of George Washington,
image or something like that.
It just falls into don't be redundant.
But anyway, so
these are the techniques and
there's a link at the bottom
webaim.org/techniques/alttext/.
They have a bunch of great
example of what could alt
text.
>> Speaker 2: You're supposed to cram
everything in for sco.
>> Jon: These are good points so
one of the worst things to
happen to accessibility is that.
The field of SEO is trying to find
flaws in Google's algorithm and
exploit them, right?
That's what you do when you're
doing search engine stuff.
So people in Google launched
their Image Search.
Like Google was like,
cool we're gonna scrape the image and
look at the alternate text if it's there,
which describes the image.
And we'll use that and so
then people are like this is the best,
you upload a million images of whatever.
But every time you upload an image
you put in Britney Spears or
free student loan reduction or
something like that.
And so then,
it became a super huge mess where and
still actively encouraging people to cram.
So, if you're writing a blog post on
like make money working from home and
you upload a picture that's like a lady
at the computer you're still for
SEO supposed to put in like make money
working from home easy free.jpg and
then and as the name and
then also as the alt tag.
It's like so bad.
And honestly it doesn't even
help all that much anymore,
because Google's kind of like plugged
that hole, but people still do it.
So yeah, think about your users,
not your search engine rankings,
and yes, don't cram it full of.
It kind of reminds me of the days when
you would put white text with a white
background with all your keywords in it,
that was like SEO, imagine that for
a screen reader.
They're like reading your blog posts and
of a sudden there's like.
Just a list of keywords for
like a mile, that's too bad.
Some interesting things,
if you're not going to have alt text and
you want to be nice to your users and
let them skip the element, skip the image
because there's nothing there, you can't
leave it without and alt attribute.
You need to give it an empty string for
the alt attribute.
So, an image with an empty
string just gets skipped.
So, this is great for user generated
content if you can't put it in,
at least put an empty string in there so
it gets skipped.
And then be careful
slash know to use this,
UPPERCASE words are gonna
be read letter by letter.
Capitalized and lowercase words are fine,
they'll be read as words.
But you know sometimes you want that,
like MIT or something like that.
So yeah.
The big one is that first one.
Like if you can't have Alt text,
at least make it empty so
that users aren't listening
to file names be read aloud.
Cool.
More check marks off our list.
So basically, for both text, audio and
video there should be just
some ways of reading.
So, for your videos, you need close
captioning, your images need all text.
And a lot of great services like all text
is pretty easy to do yourself and then,
services like YouTube offer
close captioning for free.
Theres like a lot of really cool stuff and
I've even seen some really great
strides lately like at conferences,
they've started, there's free
program out there that are like,
you attach to one of your speakers,
and it will go ahead and it will like.
Produce pretty accurate close captioning
in real time of the conference talk or
things like that.
As so this like some really
cool stuff you can do there.
Some more check box system.
And then another thing that you
wanted do sometimes if you want to
hide something from screen readers.
Screen readers don't read anything
that's display non visibility, hidden or
input hidden.
Again, if you want an image skipped over,
it's really nice, you can just go ahead
and give it an empty alt, but
then if you just want things hidden,
know that doing any of these things will
also hide them from the screen reader.
So, they're pretty good at keeping up with
what you would do to visually hide them.
But you will notice on
Frameworks Foundation or bootstrap.
They'll have some classes
that are very specific.
Like visually hidden means it's not going
to be hidden from a screen reader and
then hidden would be hidden both ways.
So then, you can kind of do the opposite,
hide it from a user but
show it to a screen reader.
And then with everything with CSS,
there's a million approaches on this.
I think this is one of
the most common ones.
This is what we used at Twitter.
So, you get a position absolute, you knock
it way off the screen, but, you give
it one-by-one pixels so it has some size
to it so the screen reader will read it.
So, it won't render because it's way
off the screen a thousand pixels,
but it'll be read.
>> Speaker 3: It's essentially
the approach you were using in one way or
another for
the skip navigation.
>> Jon: Exactly.
>> Speaker 3: I don't know if this is
still an issue, but
going back to the outlines
in browser sometimes when you shoot
something off the screen you get a really
ugly dotted line.
>> Jon: Yeah, I think they've all,
because this is used so often, I think
all the main rendering engines are really
good at handling a one
pixel element off the line.
It did used to be big and it also would
like yeah, it caused them to like.
They'd be looking to render that whole.
Cuz you've just made the browser, or
the window, like 1000 pixels wider, right?
I'm pretty sure there's not a performance
hit, or not a significant one,
to doing that anymore.
And I looked at a couple of different
frameworks, and it seems to be a pretty
agreed-on best practice.
>> Speaker 4: I think bootstrapping's
clip.
>> Jon: Yeah, so
there you can use background clips.
Yeah, you can use that too.
Again there's a gambling
in different approaches but
just knowing at if something has a little
bit of size and be read by screen reader,
you could visually hide it by
like either clipping it or
knocking it of the screen.
>> Speaker 5: Jack in the chapter that
says, an example of why you
would want to skip an image
by setting the old
attribute to empty strings.
Is, if the image is purely decorative or
otherwise does not add any meaning.
>> Jon: Absolutely,
that's a really good point.
So yeah, any presentational images that
are just, you have a wreath lining
your blog post Poster,
something that's like a design-only image.
That would be a great opportunity to.
So yeah, it's good to keep in mind,
user-generated makes some sense.
But also, sometimes you'll intentionally
leave one blank because it's not helping
the page any.
So, good point.